Task 1 - Do algorithms affect us? - Primary Research - Survey + Focus group

1. In your own words, what do you think algorithms is?

2. What influence and impact does it provide in our current society?

3. Do you feel like you're in control of your devices? every ad, video or pop-up that appears on your screens?

4. Continuing from the previous question, do you think algorithms are beneficial?

5. Do know what the Rabbit Hole Effect is? 

6. Do you now feel vulnerable or used?

7. Can you give any examples of where you've felt influenced or urged to buy or look at certain things on your devices?

8. Have you previously talked or mentioned about this certain item with your phone present?

9. With this realization, what is your perspective of social algorithms?

10. Do you think algorithms affect us?



Task 2 - Are algorithms controlling or are we too dependent? - Interviews age groups

1. Whenever you see a video that is suggested to you, do you watch it or independently search for an alternative?

2. Do you feel like you can access any or all information just from a digital device in your hands?

3.  When online, do you feel like your making the descions for what you are searching for or do you feel guided?

4. Have you ever felt constricted when online? For example, when researching for your homework/information or shopping for certain items etc.

5. Do you think we have become too dependent on algorithms to decide things for us?


Task 3 - Is our identity tied to algorithms? online survey (yes and no answers only)

1. Do you feel like the online videos you watched when you were younger has somewhat shaped you to who you are today?

2. Do you feel that online videos now have any contribution towards your personality now?

3. Has media platforms like Instagram and Tiktok algorithms changed you in anyway, like clothing or makeup etc.

4. Due to the social media algoritms, do you see more things that you are comfortable with or do you embrace the change that may alter you in some way?

5. Do you feel like you have an online personality?

6. Are you aware that you may have a online personality?

7. Do you prefer your online personality or your real personality?

8. Considering what online videos or trends that may have formed you as a individual, how do you feel about algorithms in that sense?

9. Do you feel like you formed your indentity yourself or do you think you may have some slight influences?

10. Is our identity tied to algoritms?
